[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> Joe, we are here in Chicago.
>> I love it here so much. I We don't come
here enough.
>> I agree. Chicago is an amazing city.
It's also just such an interesting city
from a financial perspective and it has
that old school, you know, merkantile
Midwest kind of feel.
>> Totally. I mean, it's it what's cool
about Chicago are many cool things, but
it obviously has the the history of
trading and pits and, you know, trading
pigs and all that stuff. And it's still
a city that's at the cutting edge of
trading. And so it's pretty cool that
like the history is like not just
history, it's still when I think of
capital T trading, I usually think of
Chicago.
>> Absolutely. And one of the themes for
our trip to Chicago this time is trading
and the evolution of trading and also
the retail revolution that we're seeing.
And on that note, we have some very
interesting partnerships that have been
developing between, I guess, old school
exchanges and more, let's just say, more
retail oriented platforms. So I think
there's the the thing that I think is
really interesting that's going on in uh
financial markets among many other
things is it seems like there's two
different entities that are trying to
cannibalize each other. And what the way
I think about it is you have these sort
of legacy well you have essentially
these sort of maybe like gambling
oriented entities or what people think
of as speculating wanting to look more
like legacy financial institutions and
you have legacy financial institutions
that want to subsume the sort of
high-speed trading speculative gambling
impulse of many young retail traders and
it's like which one will swallow the
other will it be that I trade on my
sports app Well, is it will will I be
trading cotton futures on my sports app
or will the uh the opposite will I be
going to a traditional brokerage to
place bets on a Raiders game?
>> That's a great way of putting it. I also
have to say there's a little bit of an
irony here because a lot of the old
school exchanges used to be criticized
for enabling gambling in derivatives
contracts, right? And now and now are
considering sports betting. Doors are
all flung open. It's it's all very
confusing, but I have to say we have the
perfect guest to talk about the cutting
edge of trading and the retail
revolution. We've had him on before. He
was great. We're going to be speaking
with Terry Duffy, the chairman and CEO
of CME. So, Terry, thank you so much for
coming back on All Thoughts.
>> Tracy, Joe, thank you very much for
having me. Appreciate you being here in
Chicago also.
>> Well, the last time we saw you two years
ago, you said we were going to be
replaced by AI and that hasn't happened.
So, I'm very happy that we're back and
talking to you in person. tape of that
cuz I'm not so sure that's true.
>> I got proof. I got the transcript.
>> You have everybody remembers something,
but let me see the proof.
>> I'll send it to you after this. All
right. Uh, so one of the reasons we
wanted to talk to you about retail
trading specifically is because CME just
announced this partnership with FanDuel
where you're going to be offering these
sort of event contracts. Walk us through
exactly what the partnership entails.
>> Well, the partnership is really
interesting from a whole host of
reasons. I believe that the market in
general has changed and the evolution of
the market has changed. The participants
have changed and we can all determine
why that is. We can listen to what Joe
said in his opening about how
traditional exchanges want to have the
gaming uh clients in their world or we
could say that the gaming clients want
to have the traditional finance people
in their worlds. These worlds have have
been clashing for quite some time now.
Why is that? It's all because of
technology. Technology has enabled the
participant from all levels to be on a
level playing field. So example being
institutional participants traditionally
had the greatest technology and in
return the products were customs sized
for institutional participants. As the
markets evolved, retail participants
want to be able to participate, but they
really couldn't participate at the size
of a contract that the institutions can.
So, we customized over the last several
years smaller and smaller contracts.
Well, we went from E- Minis to micros
and potentially nanos. Now, we're
looking into the prediction markets
going forward. Why is that? Well,
there's a host of reasons, but like I
said, technology and let's talk about it
again. artificial intelligence. It's the
hottest thing God put on the planet
right now as far as financial services
goes because otherwise the stock market
would not be trading where it's at today
because the market has been driven
primarily by artificial intelligence
stocks over the last 48 months for sure.
There's no other stocks really
participating the way Nvidia and some of
the other big ones are. So my point
being is today the guy that would never
be able to trade futures because he's
got a $500 account or $1,000 account or
that's what he has available to
participate in. Now we're able to give
him the technology that Goldman Sachs
may or may not have that some of the
biggest hedge funds in the world may or
may not have. How he or she deploys that
is up to them, but they're going to have
access to that technology. That's why
these worlds are colliding. And I think
it's massively exciting about the
future. And people listen, we're going
to have the biggest wealth transfer by
2040. We're going to have $80 trillion
go from or I think it's 2050 from the
existing population to people of the age
of 40 to 24. $85 trillion of wealth
transfer. Those people want to be in
control of their own destiny. Why?
Because they've grown up in control of
their own destinies today, that age
group, whether it's through the apps on
their phone or other things. So, I think
having access to all different
constituencies is really important. And
so, I'm excited by the future of this
marketplace.
>> Let's just talk more details on FanDuel.
Is the idea basically that let's say I'm
or I don't I've never gotten into sports
betting, but suppose I did. suppose I
were, you know, and I open an app and I
see the line for the upcoming Raiders
Bears game or whatever it is the idea
that in that same app I may see the
price of some the gold futures or
interest rate futures or something that
I can trade at a monetary denomination
that is sort of we associate with retail
level. Is that the specific product or
service that the CME is going to be
offering with FanDuel?
>> So Joe, yes, it's similar to that. So
today, FanDuel is set up a little bit
different than some of their
competitors. They don't have one app for
all different services. They have single
apps for different services where some
of the other ones have different apps
and for whatever reason they feel it's
an advantage. So there will be a markets
app, a FanDuel markets app powered by
CME Group. When you open up their
homepage, you'll go to that app and then
you'll see in there we'll have
potentially three to four event
contracts a day per asset class. The
events will go on for approximately 60
minutes. They're they're not like a
sporting event that goes on throughout
the event. It will be a 60inute window.
Then we will say, will the price of gold
be above or below $3,700 an ounce
>> at the end of that 60 minutes?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> They're very binary.
>> And you will see as the opening of that
event starts where the price is set. And
it might be set at 50 cents. it's going
to be above it because it's kind of in
the middle or if it's higher it might be
80 cents to say it's going to be above
it but not there's nothing to say it's
going to be above it. So you'll have
people taking both sides expressing
their interest on the value of gold
which will also
>> give us the ability because we have the
liquidity providers in our core asset
classes. So the deep pools of liquidity
with this will be amazing. Just to be
clear, is the 60inute window is that
just like the first round? Like
eventually do you anticipate that it'll
be weekly or monthly or something that
resembles the time intervals of
traditional?
>> That's a great question, Joe. So, what
we what we're going to do is we'll
probably run three events a day.
>> Okay.
>> For say gold, we'll run three events a
day for crude oil. We'll run three
events a day for the S&P 500. We'll run
three events a day for some of our other
asset classes, treasuries, and these
will be multiple events, but they're
only going to be an hour long, but we'll
probably run three to four sessions
every day. So, they'll be an hour per
session. And that will run five days a
week for markets. And if in fact,
FanDuel wants to put sports up there, as
you know, those are weekend events as
well.
>> Well, let me ask the really sexy
question then. Um, how exactly are these
trades or contracts structured? And you
mentioned the liquidity providers there.
Walk us through exactly the mechanics of
these trades. Who are the providers?
What does the market making look like?
Are they being cleared? How does it all
work?
>> They will be centrally cleared through
CME's clearing house. So yes, they will
be. The market structure will not look
too dissimilar to what we have today.
The market participants, we have
multiple market makers versus where some
of our competitors have a single market
maker doing this. uh we will have as you
know at CMA Group we have a lot of
market makers in our different products
they will have access to these event
contracts and they will create the
liquidity throughout the day and we will
incent them to make sure that the
participants have a tight deep market so
that's basically how it'll work Tracy
>> and do the market makers have to hedge
their exposure or are these contracts so
small that it's not a big deal or
>> well you know small contracts can be
small Tracy but as you know you trade
enough of anything that's small turns
into something big
>> and I'm sure you want this to Of course
we do. So, but they will have access to
lay off that risk in the primary markets
and that's the big difference with our
offering. So, we will be offering our
deep liquid products and we'll have
events with them. So, our market makers
will seamlessly be able to uh offset
these contracts.
>> You'd said in the beginning that
>> or not, by the way, or not, that's up to
them. You said in the beginning that
technology is part of the story of why
these two worlds of gambling versus
legacy finance are have been colliding
or maybe merging etc. And I believe that
and I also believe that the there is no
such thing as a bright line between
what's investing and what's speculation.
There's a lot of debate about all of
that. But is another element here
essentially that the norms have changed.
There used to be an expectation that you
know retail investors didn't have access
to say like private um private
investments the there used to be it used
to be much harder to gamble on sports
period. There's been a big change in the
norms it seems and then follow on
regulation such that by and large it
seems to be conventional wisdom that
people should be really allowed to trade
anything they want on anything they
want. Well, I I think there's some truth
to that, but I think that's a pretty
broad brush of should people be able to
trade anything they want and anything
they want. I think you listen,
regulation breeds credibility to any
product. And if it's not regulated to a
point and it's the wild west, somebody's
going to get hurt and and that's not
what a company like mine that I'm the
chairman and CEO of and I have been for
the last 23 24 years now. I that's not
something that I would want to bring
forward into this company. I you said
something else that I and I'm going to
get back to the regulatory part, but you
said something really interesting. Is it
investing or is it speculating? Let me
ask you a question. This is rhetorical.
You ever see an investment that doesn't
have if you're making an investment, you
need somebody to take the opposite side
of that trait.
>> And if another investor is going the
same direction, there's reasons why
Oracle went up 30% two weeks ago after
their announcement. Why? Because no one
want to get run over by a freight train.
You need speculation in order to
increase investment.
>> Yeah.
>> So I think that you know people say that
speculators are bad for the market.
Well, who's going to create the
liquidity for the investors if we don't
have speculators? So that's point one.
Going back to the regulation, I think
that when you look at the regulation for
these products, we have to let the
participants be made aware through
education and other tools of what the
rules of the road are. And I think right
now with the crypto world where it's
going right now in some of the other
marketplaces where they're at on the
predictions, I think there's some
confusion. I'm going to be doing a round
table in DC this coming Monday
associated with just these type of
topics of what what's innovation, what's
not. And so Joe, I think your questions
are really really strong. And that's one
of the reasons I'm doing this deal with
FanDuel because I want to walk before I
run here. I think it's really important
>> but I do want to make sure that the
retail participant has the ability to
participate at their level. That's why
these contracts will be binary in
nature. That's why these contracts will
be a dollar so anybody can participate.
But again, I think that the ultimate
regulatory framework as it goes forward
has yet to be harmonized, for a lack of
a better term, between traditional
marketplaces and now we're looking at
event contracts on sports and other uh
indices.
So, I'm excited by this, Joe, but I I
think there's a lot of what you said in
your question that's yet to be answered.
And the problem is right now there's a
lot of people going out with offerings
before these questions have been asked,
answered, or for sure studied.
>> We we've talked to some and we're
talking to some more of them
>> for sure.
[Music]
Okay. Okay. Well, speaking of regulatory
harmonization, I'm just going to I'm
going to hit all the really provocative
topics today and ask about tax
treatment. Um, because my understanding
is that losses on futures contracts are
treated differently under new tax rules
than losses on platforms for sports
betting and things like that. How much
of the interest that you're seeing from
places like FanDuel and other markets is
coming from I guess the possibility of
people being able to trade with futures
contracts or bet using futures contracts
and not having to pay as much in tax.
>> So let's make sure we understand both
sides of the equation. You said only
losses gains as well. So we'll talk
about tax treatment in general. So what
what what Tracy's referring to listeners
at oddlots is what's called 1256
contracts under the tax code which
allows people to get a blended rate of
60/40 tax treatment. 60 long-term gains,
40 short-term comes out to a blended
rate of about 27%. Futures contracts
cannot get um long-term capital gains
because of the way they expire today. So
we don't get long-term capital. So we
get what's called 1256 treatment. That's
what Tracy I believe you're referring
to. That was a great explanation by the
way. You should host.
>> Thank you. Anyway, the 1256 contract.
So, when you talk about sports, sports
will not be treated on event contracts
under the 1256 regulation. But gold,
equities, all our other core businesses
on events, we will believe that they are
event futures, not event swaps.
>> So, we swaps are not treated under 1256.
uh futures are. So we think our events
on our market participants and those
products will be treated with the same
tax treatment we get today for our other
businesses and then events such as
entertainment, such as political events
and sporting events will be traded as
ordinary income.
>> Got it.
>> Are you going to enter
um political betting markets?
>> I would not take anything off the table.
It's not something that I support at
this moment. But there's a lot of things
I think when people say they don't
support and then all of a sudden they do
it and you go, "Well, what changed your
mind?" And you don't have a good reason.
So, I never said I wouldn't list
Bitcoin. I just thought it was important
to make sure that the timing is right.
So, I waited till 2017. Then one day I
said, "Today is the day because the
timing seems right to me." So, I never
said I wouldn't do it. Even though there
was a lot of people between 2008 when
the price of Bitcoin was $8
>> to 2017 when I listed it
>> uh that said that this stuff is tulips.
It's garbage. Don't trade it.
>> All right. Let's hear your thinking on
the politics markets.
>> So, I'm going to we're going to get to
the politics. So, I don't believe right
now that event markets on politics are a
good thing. That's my take on it. I want
to see how it goes out. I didn't like
mail
um mail in uh voting either. I thought
voting should have been in person
historically, but my mind has changed on
that too for a whole host of reasons
because now we get more participants
>> and we have technology to protect
against bad behavior in voting. I think
we can get the same on these event
contracts for different events. I don't
know if it's there or not yet. We've had
one political event contract that was
listed so far that we that we're aware
of and that was the presidential
election, right? So that's for the most
part that's all that's happened. I think
that's kind of a a small sample of uh
political event contracts to base your
decision on. Is this good or bad? So I
kind of want to see how it goes, Joe, to
answer your question. So I don't see the
rush to get into it. And the the reason
why I don't see the rush to get into it,
if you look at CME today with XRP on the
on the Ripple uh crypto contract, we are
the premier place for people to mitigate
and manage risk on Ripple. Now, I was
one of the last people to get into
crypto in 2017, but yet we have one of
the biggest marketplace. I just listed
Ripple. So, the credibility of CME is
very important to me. I think it's
important to my customers as well.
That's why I'm very cautious about some
of these political contracts. So that's
why I was trying to tie the two together
a little bit.
>> All right. Sorry.
>> Fair enough.
>> Yeah, fair enough. Yeah.
>> So, um, you mentioned going to a round
table next week and I believe that's the
one being held in DC.
>> Is that right? Okay. So, I know the CEO
of Kouchi is supposed to be there. Um,
never met him.
>> One of the preeminent prediction markets
in the world. Uh, when you see him, what
questions would you ask in order to
better understand political prediction
markets?
>> I mean, we're interviewing him tonight
in Chicago. Basically, Tracy's asking
what you would like us to ask him.
>> I I don't know the gentleman. I've never
met the gentleman. I have no idea. I I
think what's important is
>> that
he understands that we because the CFTC
and that's what they are suggesting
right now, which is true. So, I'm not
saying what he's saying is wrong. They
self-certify these contracts. Does it
make it right for him to list all these
different contracts because the CFTC's
got 24 hours to make a decision
to either stop it or or let it go? It's
really hard under the self-certification
process to understand anything in 24
hours especially for the government. So
the question I would have for him as I
do for myself is how are these some of
these contracts not novel and complex
and don't you believe that your
investors need a little bit more time by
the government agencies to make sure
that there everyone's comfortable so you
can offer them in a way that is very
sound mind and sound business to grow
them versus just going out there after
24 hours of nobody objecting and now
you're promoting and he is promoting
that these are CFTC approved approved
products. They're technically that is
wrong. They are not CFTC approved
products. What they are is they have not
been opposed by the CFTC. There's a big
difference there and that's the part
that they are not disclosing to their
user base. And so I would say to him or
others and I will say it because I say
what I want to say to people
respectfully. I think disclosure is
good. It's like payment for order flow.
I don't think payment for order flow
should be on the 34th page of a
perspective. put it up front, tell the
clients that's what you're doing and
nobody's got a concern with it, but we
don't because why? And I would say that
people are maybe a little thinking that
it maybe it shouldn't happen. I think it
helps the marketplace, but tell people
that earlier and I think that's what you
guys should ask him. Why won't you say
that these are not approved? They're
just not objected to.
>> Joe, I'm going to do my best Terry Duffy
impression tonight and just ask that
question verbatim.
>> And if you if you drop my name, boy,
Monday could be a lot of fun. Oh, yeah.
Okay. Right. Um, but no, this gets to my
question about norms because like so
political prediction markets have
existed in the US on very small scale
for maybe like 20 years. There was the
Iowa it was an experimental thing from
the University of Iowa etc. It feels
like the floodgates have gone open and
that actually you know under the last
administration for better or worse uh
Kelshi
um Poly Market which it's another sort
of can of worms they were under a lot of
regulatory scrutiny investigations and
they still operated etc. Now it seems
like the doors been flung open. Maybe
like it basically seems like we have
whether from a strictly legal
perspective or a cultural perspective
very little appetite in this country to
say you can't do this. Uh it feels like
yeah the barn door is open on a lot of
this stuff.
>> So Joel, let's let's talk about that a
little bit because I think it's
interesting. The
under the commodity exchange act there
is a provision where a contract cannot
be readily manipulable.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So that that's a law. So when
we're looking at prediction markets on
political outcomes and we're talking
about a presidential election, we're
talking about
100 plus million people potentially
voting with a with a base of voters more
open than that. Fine. Okay. Maybe we say
understand, okay, that's no different
than some of these other big markets.
That's a big market all of a sudden.
>> Now we'll take it down to the Congress.
We have less people voting in a
congressional race for Congress.
Correct. So every member
>> every 500,000 people gets a member of
Congress in the United States. So now
you got 500,000 people of a population
gets a member of Congress. The voting
population for that is much much smaller
that's eligible to vote. Now let's take
it to the next level. We have got a
local mayor's race in a suburb that you
live in that there is 500 people there.
You want a prediction market on that?
Because I'll tell you what, I could
probably buy that election and have my
prediction market be pay off in a big
way and and that would be deemed readily
manipulable. Now, I gave you a a pretty
wild spectrum there. Sure.
>> But I think you have to look at it in
that range. That's my whole point what I
said to Tracy earlier. We have to let
people know what they're doing because
every political event is not a
presidential election. Yeah. There are
some political events that are so small
that could be deemed readily maneuable
and you don't ever want to get in that
situation because that's how you destroy
innovation and that's my concern with
some of the political markets.
>> Joe, remember when we did that live
experiment at our show?
>> What was our big takeaway from that?
>> Um, I don't remember a take away. It was
very funny. It was the when we had uh
the manifold market of whether Zosvitz
would be on the Oddlaws podcast and then
we brought him on stage and we saw the
price adjust in real time.
>> Just to be clear, we did not bet that he
was going to be on the podcast, but you
know, he could have he could have um
>> he could have
>> he could have certainly. Okay, let's
broaden out the conversation a little
bit to overall retail trading, which has
obviously become a big part of your
business. When you think about the
evolution of retail trading at CME over
the past few years, what are the biggest
takeaways in terms of I guess the needs
or concerns of a retail trader versus an
institutional or professional one?
Obviously, you talked about contract
size earlier, but like what else do you
see out there in terms of key
differences?
>> I think the key difference is the ease
of access for the retail participant to
sign onto a platform. Historically, it's
been very very difficult and a very
difficult process uh to sign up to trade
markets, whether they're securities or
whether they're futures. So, um the
retail participant will go through an
application and probably get through
halfway through page one and go, you
know, this this is ridiculous. There's a
reason why, Tracy and Joe, that the dark
market or the illegal market in gambling
is still about three times larger than
the regulated marketplace because people
just don't want to be have that exposure
of giving out their information, right?
So that it's still a very large market,
the illegal gaming market. Um, I think
that when you to create a greater ease
for people, which is going on right now
for us, especially with the FanDuel,
you'll go through an app. It'll be a
five-click process and you'll be ready
to go. That historically has never
happened. Secondly, the retail
participants have never had a place to
go to clear their trades. As you know,
at CME, we don't directly take clients.
They have to come through one of our
member clients.
>> So, those people didn't want some of
these really small clients because they
were a risk. But technology all of a
sudden has allowed the risk management
tools to let them participate and you
could do and the one thing I liked about
Sam Bank's offering and I give Sam
credit for this was auto liquidating.
Auto liquidation is something that a lot
of people have already implemented they
call it something different. So that
risk management tools that we have in
place that others have in place has now
allowed us to take on the retail clients
and the ease of them coming in. Thirdly,
I think it's really important that you
educate them what exactly they're doing.
>> And futures can be very frightening.
People get very frightened. Like during
the pandemic when the explosion of day
trading started to happen again, there
was a lot of people that were on some of
these retail platforms that had
positions on that don't even know how
they got them on cuz they didn't
understand it, but they were almost
embarrassed to ask what happened.
>> Whether they got caught up in an option
straddle or something else, they did not
even realize what happened. So education
is key and that's one of the things that
we have been constantly hammering home.
So that's why I think the retail
business is very exciting for CME and
for other platforms around the world.
Ecosystems are important. One of the
things I tell my team all the time, I
said, "You better look over your
shoulder and see a line of clients
always coming because the day you look
over your shoulder and it's gone, you're
in trouble." And if you want to be a
gigantic institutional player, I think
that's great. And that's what CME is.
But we have to make sure that we can
move laterally left and right. If you
look at historically the growth of
markets and what's happened in the 90s,
there's a building across the street
from me. It used to be called the Sears
Tower, okay? Named after Sears and Rob.
They got naming rights over it. When
Sears was flying in the '9s, 80s, and
90s, they never heard of a company
called Amazon.
>> Nobody knows what a Sears is anymore.
Sears is gone for the most part, right?
So why did that happen? because they
didn't adapt because they felt that
their vertical was so strong along with
some of the other ones and these other
new participants came in and destroyed
them. I cannot allow that to happen. So
for me to participate in the new world
and protect the world that's going on
today is really important.
>> My dad used to love Sears, Joe, because
he said you can always find a parking
space there.
>> Oh, that's a great that's a great reason
to shop somewhere. Well, actually, let's
pick up on the um the Sears versus
Amazon. There could be someone who
listens to this conversation and hears
your concern about the speed with which
Kelshi lists contracts that aren't, you
know, technically CFTC endorsed. And
they might say Terry is trying to keep
his um position by dent of regulatory
regulatory mode, etc. that ultimately
Kelshi or some or any others, but
they're the ones in the headlines these
days, that they could potentially be a
major player in futures in the future
and that one reason to talk about oh
there's these concerns is regulatory
concern and also um you know like
there's not like a ton you know you as
the CME I believe correct me if I'm
wrong have had very strong pricing power
uh for uh your futures and tech and in
most of finance
margins have generally been going down.
Fees have been going down. Brokerage
costs have been going down. Someone
might hear the story and say, "You're
trying to protect your ability to
continually expand price by doing things
like going to Washington and warning
them about how scary it is these new
prediction markets are."
>> Well, first of all, I wouldn't do that
because I'm partnering with um
FanDuel. So, that's not something I'm
prepared to go say how these new
prediction markets. I will say that
certain prediction markets could be
potentially scary like political
outcomes and things of that nature. So I
wouldn't say all prediction markets are
scary. So I think that's a bit of an
overstatement. Second of all on pricing
power. If you look at the price of CME
today on a per contract basis, it's
cheaper now than it was 25 years ago.
>> So you might say to me, how could that
possibly be? You got all this pricing
power. Well, there is also another
company. As long as we're talking about
retailers, let's talk about Walmart.
There's a Walmart model. How about
selling something for less but selling a
hell of a lot more of it? My volume
today I do more in the first hour than I
did it in a week back in 2002. So the
question is we do more because we've
have access to around the world which
allows me to make CM more
>> prices have not compressed or prices
have and your prices have compressed
>> my prices today versus what they were in
O2 are completely different because when
you look at the headline price you're
not looking at the tiered pricing that
certain constituents get for volume. So
volume pricing discounts are massive
within our world. So that is a big deal.
So my average rate per contract 69.70
cents a contract. You know it it can be
higher or lower but the volume could be
a lot less too. So we do quite well with
the model that we have. But we also have
pricing on market data and other
products that's that's proprietary to
CME that you may charge different for.
So that's different. I don't go to
Washington to ever be anti-competitive
because if I'm going to be
anti-competitive, it doesn't serve my
interest for the long run.
Anti-competitive people in nature is
good for the short term, but really bad
for the long term because you want that
ecosystem, as I said earlier, to
continue to grow. And if you're smart
and innovative enough, you will grow
with it. And that's one of the things
that I'm looking at with CME. That's why
I did a deal with FanDuel. FanDuel has
13 million accounts active today in the
United States. Those will have access to
my products. I never had that before.
>> Yeah.
>> We're doing things with our retail
participants today that I think some of
my predecessors over the years ago. What
the hell has he done?
>> That we never would have done before.
>> You know, and I believe that if we still
did nothing around innovation, we would
be trading pork bellies. We would be
trading onions, which are illegal. They
dumped them all in the river and kept
the burlac sacks. Pork bellies are gone.
They're no longer here. So, we'd be out
of business. is my is the Bible.
>> I think when you go to Washington, maybe
tell they got to fix that onion thing.
>> Ask if they can set up a prediction
market for
>> that onion thing. Tell them they got
>> it's the only commodity in the world
that's banned by Congress.
>> I know
>> and I think we talked about that last
time we were together. But I think Joe,
to your point is I don't go there saying
this is bad or this is good. I go there
and saying let's have eyes wide open.
That's that's all I want because there's
nothing worse than having if someone
gets sick and we all get a cold and we
go how the hell did that happen? Well,
that that's not good for the
participants, not good for the
institutions. And right now, when you
get newer entrance coming in, I'm not
saying they're skirting the process. I'm
not saying Kelshi is skirting the
process. But when you say you have CFTC
approved products, let's make sure that
the the public understands what they
are. They are CFTC products that have
not been objected to. There's a
difference there. And I don't know if
the the end user understands that.
That's all my point was on. Got it.
[Music]
Treasury futures are a huge part of your
business and I know you've been critical
of Howard Lutnik's new effort um to set
up his own sort of offering there. What
exactly are the issues that you see
there? And I guess what can the CME do
possibly to become more competitive in
that space against you know you haven't
had that many competitors before?
>> We've got a lot of competitors
throughout the years and there's such a
thing called efficiencies in the
marketplace Tracy that capital intensive
worlds that we live in today because of
a whole host of rules going back from
DoddFrank into other uh Basel rules and
things of that nature for the banks. We
create today around $60 billion a day of
efficiencies for our market participants
every single day. And in my interest
rate uh area, it's $24 billion a day of
market efficiencies. That's money freed
up that the largest participants in the
world can use it for other areas. They
don't have to park it with me to be in
compliance anymore because I created
those margin offsets for them.
>> I think that's really important uh going
forward. So the other part of your
question was
>> Lutnik.
>> Lutnik. Oh, okay. So, I don't have an
issue. Listen, he's a treasure, he's a
commerce secretary. Um, his
offering, my concern with his offering
is the following, and I'll say it a
hundred times. They are clearing that US
Treasury futures contract in the UK
under UK law.
In the United States, the law states
that if you clear a cash treasury, which
is under the new law coming up under the
cash the treasury clearing mandate
rules, that it's an SEC
single regulatory mandate, meaning you
you go wherever you want, but the SEC is
going to regulate you. My concern was
that futures expire into cash. So,
what's the difference between a future
and a cash market once expiration
happens on the future? Why wouldn't you
treat them the same? And why would you
allow UK law
>> uh and UK bankruptcy to let US
participants
in our foreign sovereign debt? There's
27 trillion of US treasuries outstanding
today. If we have a problem like we saw
in London with the metals market of
nickel
>> where they busted the trades, they
didn't do a risk management. They just
busted the trades which left people
hanging. What's to say that the Bank of
England doesn't do that with the US
Treasury market if in fact somebody has
an issue? And if they have an issue with
that, what's to say that that part of
the market that they did that on doesn't
have a bigger impact on the US market?
So my issue is the US like every other
country in the world should have the
laws of its foreign sovereign debt be by
the laws of that nation. And we don't
have that in this particular situation.
Every other country in the world has the
laws of their country applied to their
sovereign debt except the United States
on futures. And they could say, "Well,
it's a derivative." No [__] It's a
derivative. It's a derivative that turns
into the cash product. That's exactly
what you're trying to protect. So that's
my argument. I told Mr. Lutnik, I told
Congress, I told every regulator in the
world, if he wants to put that offering
in the United States, let's go. I want
to compete with him.
>> He's going to London. Do you have a good
sense of that?
>> Why? Yeah. Why?
>> Because they believe that the swap
dollar swaps market that's in London,
which is completely different than
futures, dollar swaps is fixed versus
floating. It is not issued by the United
States government. Treasury contracts
are issued by the government. Futures,
like I said, turned into the cash. So
they believe that because there's a
large
pool of dollar swaps being cleared at
London Clearing House, the offsets will
be greater than CME.
>> Oh, I see.
>> But that's not the case because I just
explained to you that we give $24
billion a day in efficiencies in our
interest complex. The only way that that
larger pool of swaps would be relevant
in creating a better offering is if they
had any futures volume. You have to have
the futures volume. We have 100% of the
futures volume here at CME. And for
every one of those futures contracts, we
have a swap, a dollar swap at CME that
offsets it. And if we didn't, then that
would be a problem. So the question is,
if you're sitting at a dealer anywhere
around the world and you're holding US
futures and you can save the capital of
an offset with your swap, are you going
to put it at LCH because they're nice
guys? Are you going to put it at CME to
be part of that $24 billion because it's
growing? My point is the futures has to
grow in order to get the larger pool of
the swaps offsets. And right now for
every swap contract that's out there
gets the offsets against my futures
products today. we're not missing out on
anything. So his offering is is a
charade game of saying, "Look how big
that is. Okay, it's big, but no one
needs it right now. This the the futures
market is what it is right now. It's
big, but we have the swaps to give the
offsets." Does that make sense to you?
>> It does. That's his offering.
>> Yeah. We got to get you on stage
debating Letic. That would be great.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, wait.
>> I can't say anything bad right now.
>> I'll wait till he's done then we can do
it.
>> Well, speak you didn't say anything bad.
I was, you know, I was not expecting
earlier to hear you give a little bit of
a hat tip to Sam Bankman Freed, but um
there's another thing and actually Sam
Bankman Freed was one of the main um
advocate or sort of pushers of it. This
this thing that emerged out of the
crypto world of a perpetual futures and
could they apply could we have oil per
like is there any reason this model in
rather than oil it's like the December
future, the January or the 2028 future.
Is there any reason that this tool, I
guess, product, whatever it is, that
sort of emerged out of crypto couldn't
eventually be applied to all of these
legacy asset classes?
>> It's against the act.
>> The the a futures contract,
>> yeah,
>> is defined as a product that is to be
price determined at a later date.
>> Okay.
>> It doesn't say it will it'll be and you
have to have a haha test, right, on
that. So, a 50-year per is not a later
date. So that would
>> just because that's a joke. That is
would you say the haha test? That would
be like a
>> if if you created a 50-year perpetual.
>> Yeah.
>> Which some of these people are doing in
Europe and others. Yeah.
>> They say, "Well, they're perpetuals, but
they'll they'll do something 50 years."
Okay. That's not the that's not the
definition by law of a future.
>> If the law were to be changed in the US,
would you see that as a innovation that
could be useful for uh these markets
that you trade? There are certain
markets that could never become
perpetuals. And there's a reason for
that. So, let's talk about what those
are. If you have a perpetual livestock
or grain market, how in the world am I
going to make or take delivery on
something that never expires?
>> Immortal cows,
>> right? How am I going to make or take
delivery on the food markets of the
United States, which is very integral
into pricing of these? So, deliverable
products
>> can
>> what else is deliverable? The United
States Treasury market is deliverable,
>> right? Because they expire each month.
>> They expire. So my point is a perpetual
would not work in deliverable products.
So you say, well, what about cash settle
products, Terry? Would that work? I
don't know if they would work. They
would the index would continue to go,
but again, it would not fit the
definition under the law of a futures
contract because whether it's cash
settled or physical settled, the
definition is the exact same thing for a
futures contract. And it's not the
perpetual definition. Got it.
>> Let's talk some more general macro, I
guess. And we we touched on Treasury
futures earlier, which again big part of
your business. There's talk of another
potential government shutdown. I'm very
curious how you think about that. How
much of your time you spend thinking
about that possibility and what it means
for CME risk management? Or is it the
case that we've been here so many times
before? You kind of know what the
playbook is.
>> You always think you know what the
playbook is to some extent, Tracy. But
again, I think that if you the one time
that you apply that strategy and you go,
"Whoops, what do you mean it happened?"
You know, that's a problem, right? So,
you always have to be prepared and we
are. I think if there is a shutdown,
which I think there very likely could
be. I don't think it's going to be the
shutdown that is going to be a
disturbance to the economy. I think it's
going to be a disturbance to parks and
recreations. It's going to be a uh some
of the other disturbances which this is
where it bothers me. Social services,
you know, that's a problem. But what
does that mean for the financial system?
Not so sure. But you know, people's
social security checks getting out on
time. Is that get delayed? That's a
problem.
>> Economic data getting reported in time.
>> I I think that when you look at they've
always kind of carved that economic data
out.
>> Okay. Yeah. with the USDA and other
entities, they've always gotten gotten
the data out through past shutdowns. And
I do think that the pressure to reopen
the government will be immense from both
sides of the aisle. So, they will have
to come to it. Even if it's a short
shutdown, I I don't see it being a long
one because of the reasons the the
social services that are so important to
so many constituents of Congress need to
have happen. You know, this actually
reminds me going back to the uh
different the varieties of event markets
and we talked about the political risks
which I find uh you know very compelling
especially at the small elections. There
are other things that are traded on
event markets that to my mind a a hedger
with a sort of economic stake might want
to hedge. So portfolio manager who might
be worried well what if we get a super
weak jobs print um that could really
bust my trade on these other prediction
markets you can bet is it going to be
over 150 is it going to be over 200 is
it going to be below 100 you could also
maybe a someone who's very bullish Tesla
for their robots division wants to is
bearish on the cars so I'm going to go
long Tesla but I want to short the
prediction market on their volume car
sales etc these are different than the
politics ones in the sense that they're
not as easy, manipulatable. They're
something else. How do you feel like
there seems to be some It strikes me
that there could be a real economic
justification for the existence of these
event markets?
>> I again, Joe, I'm not going to disagree
with what you just said because I I I
think that the more riskmanagement tools
we have is better. Yeah.
>> What you just described was risk
management. You did not describe a
gaming type scenario. You described a
company of Tesla that has multiple
divisions that you like one, but you're
a little worried about the production of
their cars. So, it it happens every
single day and it's been going on in the
market for 100 years. It's called parat
trading. So, you sell this and buy that,
right? Because you're not quite sure
when the event's going to happen, but
you know, let's all spread it up a
little bit.
>> It just seems to me that there's this
proliferation of possible tradable
events now in part because of these new
platforms. So you you know when we think
about hedging risk, maybe a big insurer
wanted to hedge out some interest rate
risk or something that makes sense, but
these new platforms are offering very
specific things like bet on the car
sales number or bet on the jobs number,
etc. Is that a space that you could see
again it's a risk management thing could
see me get into events such as that?
>> Again, I think when you look at specific
events that you just outlined, I'll use
Tesla.
>> Sure. to your example, I would have to
see what the interest is by the
participants because if you get a
contract that you list you, whether it's
a prediction market or a standardized
contract, and no one wants to trade it,
then it's it's an irrelevant contract
anyway, right? So, I like to say that,
and boy, I hope the people in Maine
don't hate me because I've used this
example a few times. There's people in
Maine that think you should have a
lobster futures contract, right? But you
know who wants that? People that are in
the lobster business. the rest of the
world doesn't care about that because we
can't afford lobster and we can we just
pay for it whatever the price is. So
there really isn't a marketplace there
for the speculators to participate in.
>> So is that the same situation with what
you outline? I'm not suggesting it is
but that's up to the participants.
That's why we we're very careful not to
put out products that we think that
there's no demand for. We we research
with
>> massive constituents about what they
think they need in order to manage risk.
Mhm.
>> And we're hearing different things now.
Does a product come out like a
prediction market where everybody goes,
"Aha, I finally found the holy grail on
how to lay off my risk." I don't see it.
I think the prediction markets that'll
be listed will be driven by the demand
of the participants, not the market
itself. Does that make sense to you?
>> Yeah. Very interesting.
>> I really want to launch a uh lobster
prediction market now. Lobster price
prediction. I think that'd be a really
interesting experiment.
There used to be a cardamom futures that
was traded in India and I tried reaching
out to the regulator. I wanted to do a
story about a dead futures contract that
didn't I couldn't get in. I got to try
again cuz you should try again.
>> Yeah. I'd love to like the story of a
futures contract that just lost. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Sort of on this note, do you see any
indication of big institutional
investors, I guess, taking some of the
the strategies that are deployed by
retail or sort of imitating retail in
some way. And what I mean by that is I
think about the one day zeroday options
when those first gained traction a lot
of the activity was through retail and
then the institutional sort of got
pulled in and got really into it. Is
there evidence of institutional becoming
more like retail in certain patterns of
behavior or certain interest in certain
products?
>> Well, I think there is always an
opportunity for big institutions to look
at what the retail is doing. So let
let's let's be mindful of where the
money comes from from institutions. So
if you put together a pool of dollars
and you give it to a a large
institution, they call it institutional
money that probably came from a subset
of the teachers union of a lot of
people. So everybody's got $10 and this
all a sudden it's worth $und00 million
or a billion dollars, whatever the case
is. So that retail money that's now big
is now called institutional money. So
their their thought processes aren't too
dissimilar from their clients. So yes, I
can see that going back and forth,
ebbing and flowing about the ideas of
what they want to participate in or not.
First of all, I think people are always
looking for opportunity. I think they're
always looking for efficiencies and I
think that the lines of institutional
and retail are absolutely blurred right
now. And I think there's a lot of people
going, "What does that mean?" I feel
like I've got some kind of handle on
that. And that's why I'm doing what I'm
doing because I think that the those
blurred lines will continue to go
forward and the products that they
participate in and how they do it will
continue to get blurred. I think both
can grow and they'll grow exponentially,
but they're going to look a lot alike. I
just have one last question and I feel
compelled to ask every CEO or really
every corporate executive this these
days with the exception of your software
engineers who work at uh CME right now.
Is there anything that you can point to
where large language models are being
deployed in a productive way within here
or is it still at test and see and do
experiments?
>> Okay, so let me see if I can answer that
one, Joe. So large language models being
deployed.
>> Yeah, I'm sure the engineers are
generating code. So let's
>> Yeah, there's no question. But see,
we're we're kind of in a bit of a limbo,
for lack of a better term, spot right
now because a lot of that stuff that I'm
working on is going through Google right
now because of the the relationship and
the partnership I have with Google. I'm
transitioning I'm going to transition my
markets to Google Cloud. I'm
transitioning a lot of my tech to Google
cloud and a lot of that machine learning
and things of that nature Gemini and all
that we're going through Google so we
are doing it together so it's not just
my people doing anymore it's CME and
Google working together to deploy that
so I can't give you a singular answer
what we're doing as CME because it's
it's a mix between us
>> at the moment there's no workflow that
exists where someone could point and say
you know what this used to be a 10erson
job but thanks to large language models
it's a one person job at least as of
September 25 2025
>> the only way I can answer that is by
headcount
>> okay
>> and I would say that that is not the
case because one of the things that I've
seen with technology is it creates other
jobs and it eliminates the last job
>> so yes we have seen the elimination of
certain things to your point but it's
created other ones so I look at it as
headcount not so much as project uh
related
>> spoken like a former pit trader who
became the uh the CEO of a very large
derivatives exchange Can I squeeze in
one more question? This is backward
looking, but I am very interested in
hearing about it. Um, Liberation Day,
huge amount of market volatility. What
was that like for you?
>> Um, you know, just another day to be
honest with you. I hate to say it that
way, but we've seen so many different um
events in my career that, you know, when
you go back to the 08 crisis, you go
back to the flash crash, you go back to
other scenarios, the pandemic, you know,
I look at the pandemic as one of the
more the more frightening times in the
history of markets versus liberation
day. Liberation day is more about what
are the tariffs going to mean or not
mean. And you know, I think there's a
lot of people that believe that there's
no way that these could come to
fruition. So, it was kind of tempered
down a little bit. The activity was
pretty exciting, but if that were to
come out of the blue, it it would be
really bizarre. But I think that was
fairly well telegraphed, Tracy, to say
the least, Liberation Day. So, I think
the market was well prepared for it. It
reminds me a lot of last week with the
Fed.
>> That was the most telegraphed quarter
point move in the history of the Federal
Reserve, right? Is that fair? I think
liberation day
nine 5% moves in the stock market in a
row.
>> Okay. So when you look at percent of
stock market moves at the levels that
we're at today versus the percent of the
levels that we're at in '08 it's it's a
non-event. So if we had 8 9%
>> everything based by 2008 is a non-event.
>> Okay. Therefore is all price anyway.
>> So I think it's relative to the value of
the product and the percent goes with
it.
>> What would worry you now? everything
worries me.
>> Oh, okay.
>> So, I don't have one particular thing.
So, you could say anything and I'd say,
"Yep, that worries me." So, but I I try
to uh manage it and move forward. And I
I I like to be, you know, telling my
people a couple different things. I I
love looking for I love the future. I
love young people. I think they're
innovative. I think they're
opportunities galore going forward. And
I like to use my past as something that
I learn from but not live in it. So, I
don't like to look through the rearview
mirror. I like to look through the
windshield and go forward. So, but when
you do that, you know, there's a lot of
things that can scare you. We talked
about them earlier today. Some of the
new innovations that are coming out,
some will win, some will fail. So, you
have to be very careful about how we
participate in that as an institution
like CME. So, that a lot of that
concerns me. No different than when Sam
was uh you know putting forth with uh
FTX back in the day and he was backing
up his coins with synthetic other coins
and then he wanted to have a margining
system with no risk management that that
was fraught with danger and I saw that
but it seemed like nobody else did. I'm
not suggesting that's today's world, but
there seems to be uh a situation right
now with regulatory issues where, you
know, go ahead and do it and we'll
apologize later is the old saying,
whatever it is. And and that's not a
good place to be. So, that worries me a
little bit, Tracy.
>> All right, Terry Duffy, always good
chatting with you. Thank you so much for
coming back on the show.
>> Thanks, Tracy. Thanks, Joe. That
>> was a blast. Thank you so much. So much
fun.
[Music]
Joe, Terry's a blast. I
>> I love talking to Terry.
>> Yeah. Um I'm glad we did it though
because I think if you're thinking about
the intersection of the sort of
prediction betting markets and the sort
of old school traditional markets, the
CME, you know, kind of stands out.
>> It's right there. Yeah. I thought I
really I really liked his point about
2017 was by some
by many measures very late to the crypto
game. Maybe I mean I guess we don't know
in 100 years from now maybe that'll
still be seen as day one but it's been a
successful business for the CME and so
this idea that the long-term
you know one way to think about the
long-term value creation of the CME is
that it's okay to be second that doesn't
need to rush out of the gate for some of
these things. I thought that was a very
compelling example,
>> right? And there, you know, there is
first mover advantage, but on the other
hand, there is also institutional um
strength that can be an advantage as
well.
>> FTX said first mover advantage. It sort
of was missing the latter one, and that
was proved to be very costly.
>> I think that was Terry's point, right?
>> Yeah.
>> I don't want to be super old-fashioned
when it comes to a lot of betting
markets, but one of the things you hear
is that when you think about traditional
financial assets, it's about putting
money to good use, right? you know, you
invest in something, you're supposed to
get an income stream back or maybe an
asset that appreciates over time, but
again, probably one that generates some
sort of income. I do I I look at the
activity on all of these betting
platforms and like, you know,
marketmaking platforms and things like
that and I just think there's so much
money being generated and I'm not sure
like
>> where it's going. Do you know what I
mean?
>> Yeah. There's so much going on right now
and like it just feels like there's a
complete blurring of everything, a
complete transformation of everything.
It really does feel like to me
specifically the doors are being flung
open. There is this sort of growing norm
in society that anyone can trade
anything at any time for better or
worse. I make no judgment on it. I do
think you know
it is interesting to me one to CME
specifically
>> this sort of like caution where you know
let's let's take this stuff seriously
not necessarily dismissing
on the other hand like when CME like
partners with FanDuel and which is like
a literal sports betting company it
strikes me that that is an accelerating
event for this world where we just trade
on everything that you can talk about
caution but like when you're like you
know partnering with a straightup sports
betting company even if it's on a
different app etc that you're
accelerating this world of everything is
a bet on any on any app
>> on the plus side lots of content for
good odds episodes
>> and one other thing yes and we have many
more like this is like perfect timing
this trip and everything because there
is so much going on there's that round
table I really like Terry's point about
the and even if you said it as kind of a
joke about the lobster futures because I
do think that's very telling right you
could imagine in that lobstermen might
like to hedge their prices, but that
there's just not going to be enough
volume or real market for it. And I do
think that's interesting to keep in mind
because I do look at some of these
contracts that exist on the other
platforms and like I could see a entity
wanting to hedge out the risk of a very
left tail jobs report or I could see
wanting to hedge out the car sales risk
of Tesla. The logic of the market does
not necessarily mean that there will be
a sizable market. I think is a very
important one to keep in mind.
>> But I also wonder if you wouldn't have
the same market size issues for
something like a lobster prediction
market. Like who Well,
>> well, yeah. I do think we don't know.
>> No, no, no. I It just throws up all
these really interesting questions and I
do think maybe we should start one and
then talk about what we learned from it.
>> Let's do it.
>> Okay, the next Odd Thoughts series. Uh,
shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman
Dashelbennet at Dashbot and Kale Brooks
at Kellbrooks. For more OddLots content,
go to bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. You can chat about all of
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
it when we come to Chicago to talk
trading, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]